Children are busy observers of natural objects, and have many questions to ask about them. But their inquisitive observation is commonly repressed, instead of being encouraged and guided. The chief reason for this unnatural course is, that parents and teachers are not in possession of the information which is needed for the guidance of children in the observation of nature. They have not themselves been taught aright, and therefore are not able to teach others. In their own education the observation of nature has been almost entirely excluded; and they are, therefore, unprepared to teach a child in regard to the simplest natural phenomena.
Here is a radical error in education. When we put a child into the school-room, to be drilled in spelling, reading, arithmetic, geography, etc., we effectually shut him in from all the varied and interesting objects of nature, which he is so naturally inclined to observe and study. These are very seldom made the subjects of instruction in childhood. And even at the fireside the deficiency is nearly as great as it is in the school-room.
A similar defect appears to a great extent through the whole course of education. The study of the wonderful phenomena 
[viii]
which are all around us and within us, is, for the most part, neglected, except by the few whose inclinations to it are so strong that they can not be repressed. This defect is well illustrated in a remark which was made by a mother in relation to her own education. When at school she stood at the head of her class, and excelled particularly in mathematics. Her remark was, that she every day regretted that much of the time she had given to the study of mathematics had not been spent in learning what would enable her to answer the continual questions of her children. Even when the natural sciences are taught, the mode of teaching them is generally ineffectual. The knowledge which the mass of pupils in our higher schools gain of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, Botany, and Physiology, is very deficient.
There should be a thorough change in this respect in the whole course of education, beginning in childhood. The natural sciences should be made prominent among the studies even of young children, who, in other words, should be encouraged and guided in that observation of nature to which they are generally so much inclined. In the different departments of natural science there are multitudes of facts or phenomena in which children readily become interested, when they are properly explained.
In this little book my object is to supply the mother and the teacher with the means of introducing the child into one department of natural science—that which relates to the vegetable world,
[ ix]
or vegetable physiology. With this view, I have endeavored to select those points only which the child will fully understand, and in which he will be interested. But this selection has by no means shut me up within narrow limits. I have been surprised at the amount of knowledge in this interesting study that can be satisfactorily communicated to the mind of a child. While the fundamental points in vegetable physiology are quite fully developed in this book, I have avoided as far as possible all technical terms. These can be learned when the pupil becomes old enough to profit by learning them. The facts, the phenomena, are what the child wants to understand; and these can be communicated in the simplest language, so that a child of about seven or eight, or perhaps even six years, can readily be made to comprehend them.
I begin with the most simple and obvious facts—those which relate to flowers—and go on through fruits, seeds, leaves, roots, etc., step by step, until, at the latter part of the book, the circulation of the sap, and other points at first view complicated, are made perfectly intelligible. By this gradual unfolding of the subject, many points are made clear to the child, which are not fully understood by many of those who in riper years have studied botany; for in the common mode of teaching this science the mere technicalities of it are made prominent, while the interesting facts which vegetable physiology presents to us in such variety receive but little attention.
The best time to use this book in teaching is during the summer, 
[ x]
because then every thing can be illustrated by specimens from the field and the garden, and the teacher can amplify upon what I have given. For example, when the lesson is to be on leaves, the teacher can request her scholars to bring as many different kinds of leaves as they can find; and she can point out their differences after the same plan that I have adopted, but in a much more extended manner. Indeed, if the teacher catch herself the true spirit of observation, she will be continually led in her teachings to add facts of her own gathering to those which I have presented.
I believe that there are few terms in the book that can not be readily understood by the child. A little explanation may sometimes be necessary on the part of the teacher, especially when the same word is used as meaning more at one time than at another. For example, the word plant is used sometimes, as in the title of this book, to include every thing that is vegetable; while at another time it is used to distinguish certain forms of vegetables from others, as in the expression plants and trees.
Eu tinha-a encontrado quando passava e tinha-lhe dito boas-tardes porque me pareceu que ella precisava de que alguem que ella não conhecêsse lhe desse as boas-tardes. E assim foi. Ella teve um sorriso que eu não gostei mas que era precisamente o que ella devia ter depois de eu lhe dar as boas-tardes. Nada me encantava n'ella, nem aquelle arremêdo da moda tão ingenuo e inconsciente que lembrava os quartos andares na Estephania ou os proprios figurinos desenhados que veem de Paris, nem o seu quê de jovem que brilhava na saliva por entre os dentes, nem mesmo o seu incognito que não iria álem de um par de meias de sêda estreiadas a semana passada.
Tudo n'ella tinha um limite de grande saldo ou de abatimentmos por motivo d'obras. A não ser os olhos que tinham uma sentillação meridional de beiramar com dramas de marujos d'aqui a alguns annos, a sua bocca e o seu nariz e toda a sua proporção tinham uma bitola resumida que nem dá direito a reforma. E d'ahi, poderia ser! mas nem foi a curiosidade que me deteve foi aquillo de eu lhe dar as boas-tardes e seguir. Mais adeante tive vontade de voltar atraz, mas nem me lembrava d'ella, e voltei. Foi ella quem me deu as boas-tardes e com um sorriso que lhe mudára completamente toda a figura. Chegou-se perto e disse que me conhecia da Figueira da Foz e se eu ainda namorava aquella menina que era tão loira e tão galante. N'aquelle momento eu tive a impressão de que a Figueira era o unico sitio do mundo inteiro onde eu nunca tinha estado mas quando ella me perguntou pelo Marquez o senhor meu papá não tive outro remedio senão dizer-lhe que estava muito bem e que se recommendava. Disse-me com as mãos nas ancas que não desfazendo achava o Marquez senhor meu papá um personagem illustre e tirou as mãos das ancas. O que era pênna era elle ser tão jogador mas tambem isso não era o que lhe iria fazer moça nas rendas. Perguntou-me se elle ainda usava monóculo e quiz certificar-se se era no esquerdo se no direito que elle costumava usar e apesar de eu lhe ter dito resolutamente que isso era conforme o seu estado de espirito ella disse que pois a ella lhe queria parecer que era no esquerdo.
Quando depois de varios qui-proquós de comedias em tres actos eu lhe respondi sobre as grandes fortunas e várias do Marquez senhor meu papá ella metteu pelintramente o pedido de trinta réis pró electrico. Devia ter sido um bello ponto final mas os taes trinta réis não eram pró electrico d'ella eram pró electrico onde eu fôsse com ella porque só tinha trinta réis.
—Então vamos já!
A meio do Alecrim apeiamo-nos. Ella mexeu em chaves que riram uma satisfação que era d'ella; por emquanto eu era apenas o filho do Marquez senhor meu papá. No segundo andar era uma cancella, depois uma porta, outra porta e ainda a porta do quarto d'ella. Havia chaves pra tudo e a mezinha de cabeceira tinha seis gavêtas com chaves differentes. Depois uma senhora com avental de dona de casa vem trazer um grande molho de chaves pequenas e que muito obrigado, mas que nenhuma serviu, que eram todas pequenas. A minha primeira impressão é que era um quarto de cama vulgar excepto um retrato de senhor e careca com uma dedicatoria a tinta rôxa e assignada—Amigo e Senhor Barbosa. Em cada um dos quatro cantos do retrato estava um prego e em cada prego uma chave com fitas de sêda co'as côres nacionaes. Ella veiu fechar a janella e a senhora com avental de dona de casa voltou com outro molho de chaves ainda mais pequenas e que tambem agradecia e que tambem não serviram e que tambem paciencia. Sentei-me cautelosamente n'uma chaise-longue mas ella veiu a correr e pedindo-me desculpa levantou a capa da chaise-longue e metteu pra dentro de uma gavêta onde havia mais molhos de chaves de todos os tamanhos todos os molhos de chaves e chaves soltas que estavam espalhadas p'la chaise-longue. Sentei-me n'uma poltrona ao lado mas fiquei fortemente magoado nas costas e nos quadris; ella veiu a correr pediu-me mais desculpas e levantando a capa da poltrona tirou varios molhos de chaves de differentes feitios, mais ou menos ferrugentas, mais ou menos polidas. Em cima da meza de pé de gallo havia uma carta registada de Lourenço Marques e plo pedaço do enveloppe que estava rasgado li quasi sem querer por este paquete só te poderei mandar setecentas e trinta e oito chaves… De repente ouvi rumôr debaixo da cama e ella disse com um tocão no sobrado: "saia d'ahi, Romeu!" e logo saiu um gato côr de chave com um molho de chaves á guisa de colleira.
Depois deu-me a curiosidade pra lhe ir espreitar as toilletes no guarda­vestidos mas o guarda-vestidos era uma série de prateleiras com chaves numeradas e já devidamente classificadas e postas cardinalmente plas alturas desde a minha chave do estojo da rabecca até ás chaves de São Pedro. A certa altura ella tinha saido do quarto, dei co'os olhos n'uma caixa de lata relativamente pequena e relativamente pintada de verde-escuro com lettras brancas escrevendo chaves. Abri a caixa e qual é o meu espanto quando a vejo a ella, sentada lá dentro a gritar envergonhada pra que eu lhe fechasse a porta! Bom, fechei.
Chego-me junto da cama levanto as roupas e záz, uma chave da altura de um mancebo apurado pra cavallaria. A propria cama se a gente reparasse bem era um pedaço de uma chave de que eu tambem fazia parte. Cançado já d'este ambiente e até com medo de tudo isto fui abrir de novo a caixa de lata pra lhe pedir que se aviasse mas, longe do que eu queria, começaram a transbordar chaves e mais chaves d'esta vez todas eguaes. E já estava o oleado todo coberto de chaves e ia crescendo o monte cada vez mais e até já nem podia mexer-me com chaves até ao pescoço quando ella entrou e tão serenamente por cima de todas aquellas chaves como se não fosse nada com ella até que lhe perguntei quasi louco a razão de tantas chaves.
Afinal era para brincar aos soldadinhos, mas disse-me muito apoquentada que não lhe fizesse mais perguntas porque ultimamente andava muito desgostosa da sua vida.
I have made such a division into chapters as will place each subject by itself, and at the same time, for the most part, give lessons of a proper length for the learner. I have placed questions at the end of each chapter, for convenience in instruction. Of course the teacher or parent will vary them as she sees fit, to accommodate the capacities of those whom she teaches.